- [Instructor] We have built the docker image,
we have also created a docker image
where I could deploy a war file to a Wildfly container.
But I've not built a real docker image
where I'm adding my own JAR to the docker image,
where I'm building my own functionality as part of that.
This section will show you exactly that,
so let's take a look.
I'm here in my terminal, I'm in the directory chapter2,
and what I'm going to do is I'm going to
create a docker file here and in that docker file
I'm going to add my JAR file.
And if I see the listing of this directory,
I have this directory here myapp.
This is a simple Maven app.
Let's take a look at this Maven app.
Now I'm in NetBeans,
and myapp is open over here.
Simple Maven application.
If I look at the source packages here,
it's just got a simple app class
and all it says is hello world.
Let's take a look at the pom.xml.
In pom.xml, I just have a simple junit dependency
that is primarily for testing.
I have a Maven JAR plugin, and all it does is
builds a JAR file and sets the app file
as a manifest main class file.
The big advantage of that is when you run the JAR file
you can run it as-is and the app file
will be automatically involved, so that's pretty cool.
So now let's go back to terminal,
and let's take a look on how we can use this JAR file
and package it into our docker image.
So I'm back in my chapter2 file.
I'm going to open up a docker file here,
and in this docker file,
I'm going to use my base image as openjdk
and as you've noticed we can use jdk-alpine
to keep our image size small.
That's cool.
And then I can also say copy, because in Maven,
when we build our project, our JAR file is generated
into the target directory.
So all I'm going to do is myapp,
go to the target directory here,
and my generated JAR file name is going to be
myapp-1.0-SNAPSHOT.jar.
We will verify this name when we actually
generate our JAR file, and I'm going to copy this
into the container file system,
into the deployments directory.
And my entry point or my command for this docker image
is going to be CMD java-jar, and I'm going to refer to
that same JAR file.
And that's going to be my docker image, okay?
But before I can build this docker image,
I need to make sure that myapp-1.0-SNAPSHOT.jar
actually exists.
So let's get out of this docker file here,
and I'm going to say Maven, I'm going to refer to myapp/pom.xml,
and I'm going to say clean package.
As we expected, in myapp target directory,
myapp-1.0-SNAPSHOT.jar is generated for us now.
And since it's generated for us,
now I can build my docker image.
So what I can say is docker build,
and I'm going to say -t hellojava,
I'm going to give it a tag of three in this case.
And then I'm going to provide a build context here.
So this builds my image rather quickly, okay?
Let's take a look at image listing.
So I have hellojava latest, which was built earlier.
Then hellojava two, which was built earlier,
and now hellojava three,
which was built just about six seconds ago.
So that is pretty cool.
If I were to run this container,
I'll say docker container run hellojava:3,
and it just prints hello world.
Very clean, very simple.
Okay, now let's see how I'm going to change the business logic.
Well, in my case the business logic is
changing simple hello world to howdy world,
and see how we can repackage the application,
rebuild the docker image, and run the container.
Let's take a look.
I'm back in my NetBeans here,
look at my application here.
I'm going to just change hello to howdy.
Save the file here, let's go back to terminal,
and build our JAR file again.
I'm going to take my Maven command again,
going to clean and package it.
Once again my JAR file is generated
into this SNAPSHOT.jar file.
I am going to package the image again,
and instead of labeling as three,
I'm going to tag it as four this time.
Let's build our image, and if we take a look
at the image listing again,
I got hellojava four as well,
which was built about three seconds ago.
And I can run this container again,
giving it the tag four, and as expected,
it prints howdy world.
And just to double check, I can run tag three,
and that'll still print hello world.
Now, what we did in this particular section,
we manually changed the code,
we manually built the image,
we manually run the container.
Now typically when you're building a CI/CD pipeline,
all of these processes would be automated,
where any change you make to the code
will be pushed to the repo, and that'll automatically
build the image and likely replace the container.
In between you would have your functional testing,
performance testing, regression testing,
all sorts of aspects being tested,
and then you can build your pipeline accordingly.
So in this section you learned how do you
package your JAR files into a docker image,
and run them as a container.